---
layout: post
title: "Music Performance and Knowledge Acquisition"
tags: EmbodiedCognition
categories: reading
---

## Paper: music performance contributing to knowledge acquisition

Reybrouck M, Schiavio A. Music performance as knowledge acquisition: A review and preliminary conceptual framework[J]. Frontiers in Psychology, 2024, 15: 1331806.

> Cutting across the boundaries of well-defined areas of research such as motor learning, skill acquisition, cognition, and expressive behavior, music performance can be conceived of as a distinct field of study—one which arguably finds its place within the broader realms of perception and action studies—with a special focus on expert behavior (Lehmann and Davidson, 2002; Alexander, 2003; Chaffin et al., 2003; Ericsson et al., 2007; Brown et al., 2015), creativity (Deliège and Wiggins, 2006; Loui, 2018; Schiavio et al., 2022c), embodiment (Leman, 2007; Cox, 2016; Reybrouck, 2021), interaction (Lesaffre et al., 2017; Reybrouck, 2023a) and dynamic system theory (Richardson and Chemero, 2014; Nijs et al., 2023).'\
>
> sensory information (aural, visual, tactile, kinesthetic, proprioceptive)
>
> A distinction should be made, however, between the motor “learning stage” and the stage of “accomplished skill acquisition.” The exploratory character of the former has an additional value with respect to knowledge construction and adaptive behavior, somewhat analogous to Werner’s genetic principle of “spirality” in the broader context of his orthogenetic principle of development (Werner and Kaplan, 1963; Werner, 2013, see also Bibace and Kharlamov, 2013; Glick, 2013; Müller et al., 2013). At the core of this concept is the idea that throughout ontogenetic development lower-level processes and functions do not disappear but resurface—hence the term “spiraling”—again under specific conditions, both pathological and non-pathological. It is tempting, therefore, to argue for a kind of dynamic coexistence of schematizing processes and crystallized end-forms of acquired skills on the one hand, and tentative early exploratory behavior on the other hand, rather than claiming a unidirectional trajectory of development that proceeds from a diffuse and syncretic to a more articulate stage, in which seemingly unrelated elements are integrated in a more coherent way (see Høffding and Schiavio, 2019; Schiavio and Kimmel, 2021). It is a promising approach that may function as a kind of glue between divergent approaches to motor learning and control.

> sensorimotor integration: integration loops—such as the __audio-motor, the visual-motor, the tactile-motor, and even the proprioceptive-motor__ coupling—which couple action to perception. There is the primary feedback from manual or manual-podalic—as in the case of a drummer or organ player who also use the feet—motor processing, besides feedback from kinesthetic phonatory motor processing and phonatory resources during subvocalization as measured by covert vocal fold activity during silently reading music notation (Brodsky et al., 2008). The question can be raised, however, to what extent this feedback become part of conscious experience (see below).
>
## paper passive somatosensory training enhance piano playing
Furuya S, Tanibuchi R, Nishioka H, et al. Passive somatosensory training enhances piano skill in adolescent and adult pianists: A preliminary study[J]. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 2023, 1519(1): 167-172.
> Short-term exposure to fast and complex finger movements generated by the exoskeleton (i.e., passive movements) increased the maximum rate of repetitive piano keystrokes by the pianists. This indicates that somatosensory inputs derived from the externally generated motions enhanced the quickness of the sequential finger movements in piano performance, even though the pianists did not voluntarily move the fingers. The enhancement of motor skill through passive somatosensory training using the exoskeleton was more pronounced in adolescent pianists than adult pianists. These preliminary results implicate a sensitive period of neuroplasticity of the somatosensory-motor system of trained pianists, which emphasizes the importance of somatosensory-motor training in professional music education during adolescence.



